(upbeat music)
- [Instructor] Welcome back.
How did you make out with the challenge?
I hope you were successful.
I will walk you through my solution.
Now, it might look different than yours
but that's fine
as long as the outcome is the same.
First, we want to extend our student class
with new attributes.
Boolean active
and
int grade.
If you don't have desired constructor
what I like to use is builder (indistinct)
that can be simply enabled with Project Lombok,
by adding ed builder with (indistinct) students class.
Also in previous tests, we have used construct through
which accepts ID and name, which is now missing.
So let's add that one as well.
Now, we are ready to write our failing tests.
We will name it getAvgGrade
for active students calculatesAvg.
Again, I will structure my test with given, when, then.
In the given part, we want to create a couple of students.
First, we want to create student Mark, which is active
and has grade 80.
Similar to Mark, we have students Susan that is also active
but his grade set to 100.
3rd student is Peter, which is inactive.
And has grade 50, this student should not be counted
into average grade calculator since he's inactive.
In the given part, we also want to persist our students.
What I like to do is use arrays as list
and persist all three students
Mark, Susan and Peter.
With persistFlushFind method.
Under when part
we will invoke our new query method.
GetAvgGrade for active students
which returns double.
Keep in mind at this point
this method doesn't do anything yet
So we will need to create one.
Leave the method for now.
And let's go to our test
and write assertion on average grade.
Then average grade is equal to 90
since Peter and Susan are the only active students
sum of their grades is 180.
So the average grade is equal to 90.
Notice,
when we run the test
we get a failed result.
Well, that is to be expected
as we haven't written our implementation.
For implementing query, unfortunately,
there is no option to write method name
from which query can be derived
as there is no support for average.
However, we can write a GPQL query.
Which is the query running against the entities
which is similar to SQL.
Select
avg,
which is keyword for average grade
from student
where active
equals true.
Now, if you have gone with native SQL option
that is still fine.
As long as the result is the same.
When we re-run our test case
we should get green result
and there you have it.
We have just completed our solution.